That when you're talking about business schools, and particularly in this area, that the University of Texas, you have to recognize that they have been seen as a leading business program for well over 75 years.
consistently ranked among the handful of the best public schools.
And obviously they're also dealing with some of the same political slash funding issues that we are.
So, you know, quite frankly, and obviously with my own personal
familiarity with there and also knowing a number of the people over there.
That's been a school where we thought we could benefit from observing what they've done.
We have not hesitated to do that.
We have tried to steal the good ideas and reject the ones that we didn't think were good ideas.
But, you know, I think if you were to ask them
who's on their horizon.
Now they would grudgingly say, you know, those upstarts over A&M are getting a little more attention than we would like to see, and I think it's been a healthy thing.
I think it's a great thing for the state of Texas to have two public business programs that are ranked in the top 15 or 20 of public programs in the nation.
You're using a line I've used a good deal.
I love to work into a speech to former students, particularly muster something, with a straight face.
I say, one of the greatest blessings Texas A&M has is to have another first-rate public institution only 100 miles away.
Eyes get big, and some of them frown, and I say, now, wait a minute, folks.
don't you agree with me that everything those orange people do, A&M tries to outdo?
And they go, yes.
And I said, and don't you think everything we do, they try to exceed?
They say, yes.
And I said, as a result, we ratchet each other up.
And I use as my general example national merit winners.
That we were ahead of them in 79 when Peter Flan became president.
And he said, that's unacceptable.
We've got to beat the Aggies.
They are ahead of us now, but each of us have more than twice as many as we had in 79.
We're both.
That's right.
And then they'll say, yeah, yeah, that is good.
That is good.
And I ask them to compare, say, Louisiana, where there's only one public that anybody knows about, or Tennessee, or Kentucky, that to have two really helps.
I think it's been very beneficial.
And, you know, this, like all dimensions of the university, I think there's much more cooperation than most people realize.
You know, we've got a good working relationship with them.
We've put on some joint programs.
We had a joint program out of the Washington campus, which we're both charter members of, that we work together on.
And, you know, I pick up the phone on a not infrequent basis and just say, you know, what are you doing about this?
And they do the same.
You know, for example, Bill Cunningham, who was the chancellor there, is an old friend of mine.
We were assistant professors of marketing together.
His son came to school here.
Yes.
Just graduated in business, you know, and Bill was so impressed with the advice and the treatment that his son got after he'd been here a year or so.
that we got a call from the business school undergraduate office at Austin and said, you know, we'd like to come and sit down with your folks for a day and let's exchange some ideas.
He had told me, you know, you ought to get up there and see what they're doing.
And so we've got a good relationship and I think a healthy respect.
I mean, you know, they don't want to give us too much credit if they can help it, but I think there's a lot of respect there.
generalize about A&M business students, their spirit, their humor, any jokes, any pranks, any serious tragic episodes?
Well, I can't think of any particular kinds of
stories.
In general, I'd characterize our students as very good, as you'd expect, with this kind of university.
I think that sort of goes without saying.
The competitiveness of getting into business school, our students, certainly from their
academic standpoint are a really unquestionable high quality.
But I would say our students are relatively speaking more practical and more career focused than you might find at some comparable schools.
You know, they want to get in,
get what information that they can and then they want to get out and get on with it.
And, you know, that's not atypical of business schools, but ours are probably a little more focused.
They, you know, I think it really serves us well.
We always feel like that if we can get a company to come in and start hiring our students, that we've got that company.
Can you give some examples?
Sure.
Koch Industries are recent, relatively recent, several years ago.
This is out of Wichita.
Wichita.
K-O-C-H.
Yeah.
They came in and they had hired engineers here but had not hired business people and thought and said, well, you know, we'd like to hire some of your business folks.
And they even took, brought a plane down, took some of our faculty up to, you know, really
did it right and did some major interviewing and made some really competitive offers and hired some of our people and now they can't hire enough of them.
Ford Motor Company did a very similar thing more recently, came down and hired some of our students and now we're one of their targeted handful of schools.
The accounting firms discovered that long ago.
With all five of the accounting firms, I believe this is accurate, we're one of their top three or four source schools for new employees.
So our students, one, I think we are giving them a good education, but I think we're starting with a very good product.
These are young people that are very focused and willing to work hard and want to be successful.
And in the normal definition of the words conservative and liberal, our students are a little... Oh, very conservative.
Very conservative.
As a university, I mean, certainly compared to if you were to take other top 50 kinds of schools, I would think that we would fall
well toward the most conservative category.
Now, in the business world, in placement of students, is that an advantage or a disadvantage or just a reality?
I think it's just a reality.
You know, to the extent that that reflects other values, it may be an advantage if it reflects kind of an orientation toward success and to
to work hard to achieve that success, then it's a very positive attribute.
Those don't always go hand in hand, but to the extent that it does reflect some of those career focus kinds of attitudes, it's probably helpful.
And most of our students, I presume, are now urban.
I would say that's certainly true of the business
I mean, we still, you know, we get a lot of people from non-urban settings, but if you use the word most, then I would say most are Houston, Dallas, San Antonio.
Are there many international students in business?
Undergraduates?
Undergraduate, no.
We could have as many international students at the graduate level as we want, but at the undergraduate level, I would say compared probably to most other ranked programs,
And our undergraduate program, as you know, is ranked in the top 25, according to U.S.
News, our MBA in the top 50, but our undergraduate.
But we're probably at the low end of the scale in terms of percentage of international students.
You know, part of that is this kind of a reality of the university setting we're in and the fact that in a non-urban setting that we probably attract fewer international students.
But it's like, oh, nine or eight, nine percent.
Do you have any memories about an A&M student in business, an example of determination, willpower, perseverance?
You know, I think there are a lot of those.
You know, one that's doing very well, we were just talking about recently, been in New York City for 10 years, is now managing director for a major investment banking firm.
Craig McMahon, who was an undergraduate student here.
was an okay student, but he certainly wasn't an award winner, a good, solid young man, but he was really, from day one, the first time I met him and talked to him,
You know, wanted to go to New York City and take a shot at it and worked hard at getting interviews, did some internships, went up there and it's just been tremendously successful.
And I'm sure that he's put in enormous hours every week and worked hard, but he's
obviously reaping a lot of rewards for it.
We've had other students that have quickly made their mark with some of the accounting firms and any number of examples.
Do you recall any examples of undergraduate attempts to trick a faculty member or play a joke on a faculty member?
There are probably a lot of those, but most people assume that deans don't have a sense of humor, so we're not often directly involved in that.
But I'm sure that there have been a number of them, but none that come to mind.
One of my favorites from my teaching days here, I always stressed on the first day of class,
Here's the schedule.
Here are the lecture topics.
Here are the assignments.
Here's when the tests are.
Here's when the final is.
That's it.
Now, we don't move those around.
We don't vote on them and so forth.
So if you're planning on being sick then, and this youngster, a core freshman, came up very, very seriously to tell me that his grandpa was sick, and I expressed my sadness, and I said, I hope not.
Oh, yeah, it's very, very serious.
Well, I hope he'll...
And he said, no, it's probably going to be terminal.
And I said, gee, you know, we'll do the best we can.
As he walked to the door, he looked over his shoulder and he said, in fact, it's almost certain he's going to die the first day of deer season.
So I thought, okay.
You have to respect that kind of humor.
The real Texas world.
Your staff, the dean's staff, who were some of the...
the long-serving members of that staff in the office that deserve pat on the back and praise?
Well, you know, certainly my administrative assistant, Kimberly Potberg.
Spell her last name.
P-O-T-T-B-E-R-G.
She's been with me eight or nine years, and is this great in kind of keeping things going and making sure that I know where I'm supposed to be, where I am, and also in dealing with special events in the external community.
Our Outstanding Alumni Dinner each year, which is a big event, she takes care of that.
I have a great relationship with my development council.
I mean, I've really become close friends with a lot of them, but if they had to vote on whether Kimberly or I would depart, she would definitely win.
I mean, they think she's just wonderful.
If they need something or need to get in touch with me, well, you know, she's a great person to call.
So she's just been... Where'd you locate her?
It was a vacancy, and she was working here in the community.
Her family's from this area, and both her mother and her sister-in-law work at the university.
And it was just a happy circumstance for...
happenstance for me.
Our assistant dean, Valpera, that's been main assistant dean, Diane Conway, has been terrific.
Her husband's on the faculty in chemistry.
You know, these are people that make it fun to come to work because you know that they're going to do everything they can to make this college and consequently you look as good as possible.
There have been any number of people I've worked with.
You know, we've... I like to think that I've done a good job of getting the right people interested in doing the jobs, but I've also been very, very fortunate to have the quality of people available.
You know, if you just look at the people that have been assistant deans and associate deans, you know, Gary Trenipole and Malcolm Richards and
Don Hellriegel, and now Ricky Griffin, and John Dinkel, who was an associate provost for years, is back over as an associate dean in our college.
And, you know, Bill Furst, who just left to become the dean at the University of Kansas, you know, really had some enormously talented people to work with.
Describe working with the different provosts and presidents that you have in these 13 years.
Well, you know, that's an interesting question.
As we all know, that's certainly one of the challenges of any job.
In many ways, our college is more self-sufficient than most.
And as a consequence, some of the intersections of activity don't happen as much as they do with some colleges.
That if we want to put on a program rather than go try to
that the always iffy possibility of getting it from the provost, we'll try to get it from an external source and so forth.
So in some ways we have less relationship than some colleges, but the issues that we deal with tend to be big ones like major resources, facilities, and things of that nature.
We've had very, very different people to work with in the 13 years that I've been here.
As I mentioned, Frank Vandiver probably knew, he didn't have a clue what business education was all about, but was always a delight to work with.
And, you know, I personally like him a lot.
And he was always supportive of us.
you know, I think went out of his way to express that support.
And, you know, Bill Mobley obviously knew a lot about business and certainly was philosophically in tune with what we were trying to do.
I think I would have preferred he hadn't have bent over backwards so much to be fair.
We don't want fairness.
We want resources.
But he was, you know, and he brought a lot of vision to the job.
And, you know, I think it's been a tougher sell more recently for us.
There are certainly other priorities, and that's to be recognized.
But I think we have not done as good a job
of somehow communicating the value of business to the university as perhaps we did with the prior administrations.
All right, then the provost.
The provost.
You know, having been in that job, I fully appreciate what a difficult job it is.
And I think the thing that I would say that I always ask of a provost is, just give us a hearing and give us an opportunity before the decision is made to make our case.
And then if you don't agree with us, fine, we'll keep trying.
You know, I think Donald MacDonald had a very
reticent kind of personality, and he was a very quiet person, and some would describe him as not forceful, but our relationship was fine with Donald.
He was a very quiet person and very deliberate.
But, you know, I think he listened.
Dean Gage, I thought, was just excellent in terms of his communication skills and, you know, really trying to give a forum.
You know, I think that Douglas, Dr. Douglas, brings really a less participative
kind of management style.
I think that's changed some over time, but it's required some adjustment on our part.
And we feel like that we probably haven't done as good a job as we would like to have done in terms of communicating some of our goals and aspirations.
If you wanted an ally in these years from one of the other deans, who would have been your favorite allies?
Well, I feel like we've had some good allies, and I've really always taken a lot of pleasure in the relationship that
that I have with the other deans.
You know, I went over and for a year was the interim provost, and really it was at the urging of the deans that I took on that job, even though I really didn't want to do it, but did.
I think there are a lot that have been certainly good allies, and I'm probably not doing justice to some of the people that were here.
when I first came because they're not as recent in memory.
But, you know, certainly at the time he was Dean of Engineering, Herb Richardson, you know, at the time we were trying to get our building and so forth.
You know, he certainly had contact with the regents and so forth.
It would have been easy for him not to have been helpful, and I think he certainly was very helpful.
But I really enjoyed working with a lot of the deans.
Shattuck over in Vet Medicine, I think, was a delightful person.
But yeah, you know, I would be hard pressed if you were to say, well, here are some deans that you just really didn't want to have much to do with.
Any that have been in their job for an extended period of time that I've really gotten to know, I've really felt really very good about working with them and have enjoyed the relationship.
Right now, long ago, in the 70s,
and earlier there was an old saying that if either the dean of agriculture or engineering doesn't want something to happen, it won't happen.
There is no dean or para-deans today that could veto a project, is there?
No, I certainly, I don't think that's the case.
You know, I think that
as the other programs have grown in stature that that becomes less easy to do.
Now, I will tell you that I think one of the disadvantages that most deans have on this campus and one that I think that has troubled me and that as I leave this job in a year that I think will trouble my successor is the fact that those two deans
by nature of their dual appointment, still have an audience at every regents meeting that we do not have.
And my year as provost was very revealing from that regard in that, in effect, as the agency heads, they make a report.
at every regents meeting, it was my observation that much of that report talked about their college and not about their agency.
And that's an audience that the other colleges do not have.
And there is no question that that's an advantage.
When I was dean of faculties under Jack Williams, and he was president of the system and of the institution,
that problem didn't exist, and I saw the advantages of that very clearly.
And you went to him with whatever issue, and you got an answer.
It was decided, yay or nay.
And one of the things that he was hoping to do would be to make available
the possibility to all faculty, regardless of what college they were in, to get funding from the experiment stations from either one.
If you're doing a business research project that relates to engineering or to agriculture, submit it, it'll be reviewed and it might work.
And I certainly am on the side of what... Yeah, I mean, I would be delighted if it ever reaches me, I could get up and give them about five minutes of the exciting things happening in business.
I agree with you.
Let's see.
Make believe that you're an advisor to the new dean here.
What advice would you give him or her?
Well, you know, basically I think anybody, I would certainly hope that this is going to be an attractive enough position that anybody we get is going to be a pretty experienced administrator.
You know, probably some of the fundamental kinds of advice you really don't need to give, but I would say recognize and appreciate the value of the unique character of this institution.
There are some things about it that are harder to embrace than others, but in some, it's a very unique thing.
I mean, things like Fish Camp,
that students come back from that already feel like they're part of the institution.
This color in their blood.
That's right.
I mean, you cannot duplicate that.
You know, somehow it's this there.
And the quality of students that we're able to attract, the loyalty of the former students that sometimes will offer advice on how to run the place, and fine, sometimes they have good ideas,
But to really appreciate that it's really an asset, that it's something that makes this institution unique and it has value.
And I would tell them not to underestimate that.
I would tell them to build upon the external support that's there, that these are people that for the most part want to help and have been enormously helpful to us.
But I think there's plenty of room to make that even better.
And then I would say to not underestimate the importance of continuing to emphasize the value that this college has to the long-term aspirations of the university.
That in terms of 2020, that there may be some areas we need to build and so forth,
In my opinion, that high quality engineering and high quality business programs are essential pieces if we're going to be viewed in the way that we aspire to be viewed.
You've never had to deal with any things in the courtroom, have you?
Oh, yeah, I have a few.
Have there been some?
None involving business, but as former provost, I have.
Oh, no, no, but in business.
No, we really haven't.
Let's see, in deaning, what are the most enjoyable parts of your 13 years here?
Well, of course, you know, I've been either a dean or a vice president since 1976.
So if I didn't find most of it enjoyable, I'm not very smart because I've sure kept at it for a long time.
You know, I love the people part of it.
I really enjoy being a dean because you're still with your colleagues.
You know, I really enjoy that.
I mean, I go to lunch.
I'll stop down and go to lunch with
some people just kind of talk about things and I really enjoy that.
I enjoy meeting the business people and you know I'm still on some boards and so forth and enjoy that piece of it and at the end of the day you know I really feel like that
part of an operation that we're getting better and we're moving in the right direction and
hopefully hoping to solve some problems that are getting us there, but for the most part, hey, I'm fortunate to be where I am, you know, that it's a fun job.
But also, were there some particular moments that you recall special joy, pride?
Well, you know, most of it, I think it's kind of like in your life, you know, it's usually associated with major events, maybe those, you know, marriage, children, and that sort of thing.
You know, certainly as we've made major strides forward, you know,
enormous pleasure and pride in moving into this facility that turned out so well.
Was there a ribbon cutting?
There was.
At the time that we celebrated the gift that Lowry Mays made to us, because that was a big event for this college, that it really made a statement, and also it
It opened up some horizons, because it was clear that this wasn't all that was going to happen, even though it was a very generous gift.
You know, I'll tell you, it was very meaningful, even though we can argue about the value of rankings and so forth.
The first time that we picked up the U.S.
news,
rapidly turned to the page where they ranked the business schools, and for the first time we were in that set.
That, you know, it felt good.
Do you remember when that was?
No, it would have been eight or nine years ago.
And the latest one, where was A&M?
Latest one, we were 21 in the undergraduate program and I believe 36 in the MBA program.
And if you take out the private schools in the MBA program, we were about number 20.
18, 19 or 20.
So Vision 2020 for A&M to be in the top 20 public institutions
Vision 2020 then carried over to business.
Is that a realistic goal to be in the top ten?
I think in the top ten.
Isn't that what it is?
That's right, top ten.
Yeah, it's very realistic.
We're a lot closer than most are.
And unlike some programs like ag or vet...